HTTPbis WG
----------

Mark discussed the status of the Working Group; there is still an intent to 
get to LC by the end of the year.

Yves covered the changes in the -14 and -15 drafts; see the presentation for 
details.

We worked through the issues identified in the agenda; there was general
agreement with the approaches outlined in list discussion.

Larry asked about IRIs and whether we needed to account for the charset of
the context in query parameters; Roy pointed out that this is indeed 
context-specific, and so can't be defined by HTTP generically.

Julian gave an overview of the more difficult aspects of HTTP header parsing
(see presentation), primarily as input to the issue regarding header
microsyntax, but also as a prelude to potential alignment in existing headers.

We then had a look at tools, such as Julian's test cases 
<http://greenbytes.de/tech/tc/> and REDbot <http://redbot.org/>. We also 
highlighted the effort to socialise RFC6266 with server-side frameworks
<http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/wiki/ContentDispositionProducerAdvice>.

Larry posited that we should be thinking about / starting / finding people
to to interoperability testing.

Jim Gettys highlighted bufferbloat problems, and asked people to start
thinking about the implications in future work (see 
<http://gettys.wordpress.com/bufferbloat-faq/>).

We don't intend to meet in Taipei. 

Jabber logs at: <http://www.ietf.org/jabber/logs/httpbis/2011-07-26.html>