Agenda: http://tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/agenda?item=agenda78.html

1. agenda bashing
Alexey, do we need to talk about rechartering? (thinking of HTTP Timeout)
mnot: not now
 
2. httpbis status (see slides)
mnot: want to have LC in ~3 months
new workflow allows editors to incorporate uncontroversial changes directly in the spec
and keep state in trac

Julian: previous drafts done before IETF meetings, -11 will be published soon as we made enough progress
<list of changes, see slides>

Question? -> none
 
3. RFC2817
mnot: how much of 2817 can be moved to httpbis (CONNECT? Upgrade?)
<Julian> can we obsolete 2817 if we move these parts into httpbis?
Alexey: thumbs up
<roy.fielding> works for me
Adam Barth: obsoleting it would be fine
Alexey: changes are in the spirit of the WG charter
Cyrus: one active draft reference 2817, See 4825 and wrap
Julian: might be only the status code registry
Martin: 4825 suggest that people use Upgrade to TLS
Alexey: in practise we do that all the time, if there is an upgrade to xcap, it will fix the link
 
 4. RFC2617
mnot: part7 is the http auth framework, the meat of auth (basic and digest) is in 2617
issues like i18n auth scheme registry might be addressed
a path could be to have basic and digest in one or two drafts, framework in p7
Alexey: seems to be the right thing to do, having the framework in p7 is fine, other two documents will need a recharter
mnot: no changes needed as a first step to produce new documents, only i18n will require changes
Alexey: reopening digest could be controversial
<Barry Leiba> Cyrus: I don't see that draft-ietf-vwrap-type-system <http://tools.ietf.org/wg/vwrap/draft-ietf-vwrap-type-system/> has any ref to RFC 2617.  Checking whether I got the right doc when you said that.
<Barry Leiba> Never mind... 2817, not 2617.
mnot: if the recharter says that only editorial changes are made, it could help.
Cyrus: not sure IESG will accept Digest as-is
Alexey: moving to historic might help. If somebody want to reopen Basic and Digest, it would be better if it was in a WG
Cyrus: Mutual Auth is there as an example of new auth
mnot: we are not a security-related WG
<roy.fielding> How about defining a registry for auth schemes?
Alexey: that is a good idea (in response to Roy's comment)
 
5. Registration Policies
Alexey: does it mean that every RFC can define new method?
Julian looking at the relevant text
<Julian> IETF Review: "New values are assigned only through
 RFCs that have been shepherded through the IESG as AD-
 Sponsored or IETF WG Documents [RFC3932] [RFC3978]"
<roy.fielding> HTTP has historically been a gateway protocol -- arbitrary methods are supported but we have no registry for sharing.
mnot: most important are methods and status code
<martin.thomson> suggestion:   Standards Action - Values are assigned only for Standards Track RFCs approved by the IESG. 
Alexey: Informational is allowed by the definition
Martin Thomson: Standards Action seems in order
Alexey: we just need a gatekeeper
Martin: IETF review also has a gatekeeper
Julian: Specification required + expert review. Do we want to allow other bodies like W3C to register new methods?
Martin: we are looking at a higher bar than just IETF review
Alexey: How about IETF review + expert review ?
Martin: I think that IETF review imply expert review
=> IETF Review indeed seems to cover the case
<Anne> requiring an RFC for a new HTTP method?
mnot: yes (response to Anne)
<Anne> sounds like overkill to me
<Julian> Anne, just for the record: the RFC requirement for methods isn't new
<Anne> kk
mnot: probably a higher bar for auth scheme
Alexey: you want to allow experimentaiton as well
Martin: point of order, spec required implies expert review, no need to specify it
Cyrus: why Transfer-Coding and Content-Coding don't require IETF review while Range would get it ?
mnot: because we already have entries in the registry
adam: is there spam protection for upgrade tokens?
mnot: yes
sam johnston: any plan to have a user-editable registry for link ?
mnot: not in scope of this wg, will talk offline
mnot: when you get question about what status code to use and you point to let's say a Webdav-defined status code, it is common to have a "it's webdav, not an HTTP status code", what can we do to clear up that perception ?
can be fixed in the registration text, also in the registration procedure we can require specific document to register the status code.
what would people think to require specific document to register status code ?
Julian: depends on how litteral you take that, if you have 3, do you need 3 docs ? 
mnot: no
Julian: also the shouldn't be a need to split status code and methods
martin: maybe you want to include guidance in the registry to define what you want to put in those
mnot: just opened new methods about guidance to define extensions like methods etc...
 
6. Content-Disposition
<see slides>
Julian: people interested in security consideration for Content-Disposition are welcomed to contact me
 
7. Active Issues
http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/report/17

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/224
Header Classification
do we want to rethink header classification ?
Martin: good suggestion from Roy to keep only connection and end-to-end headers.
mnot: general vs entity is a confusing concept

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/225
contradiction between p2 and p6 text
<martin.thomson> conclusion was to invalidate
people slightly in favor of invalidating
need text for #100 about DNS spoofing, contributions welcomed

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/213
<roy.fielding> The only thing left for #109 is "entity-header" classification, which we just agreed to remove.
the spec define 1xx to 5xx while grammar allow 3 digits, is 016 or 913 allowed?
Julian: 016 or 913 require IETF review anyway, so IANA should never see those
mnot: also do we want to reserve a range for local use?
adam: clarify 0xx and 6+xx in which direction ?
mnot: clarify that they are reserved, and cannot for now be registered.
Alexey: has tightening the ABNF discussed?
mnot: not yet, perhaps in the future a new class will be added
Julian: if we change the ABNF if will change a semantical error in a parsing error. Do we want to do that?
Alexey: I will check what SMTP did
<roy.fielding> and do the opposite ;-)
'effective request URI', editors are talking about using 'target URI'.
<alexey.melnikov> In SMTP: Reply-code     = %x32-35 %x30-35 %x30-39
<alexey.melnikov> So this is more restrictive than 3DIGIT
Jeff: Effective Request URI implies that it is not serialized on the wire. It might be good to keep the explanation in the spec
perhaps using ERU as an acronym
<roy.fielding> no no no 

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/221
Should Effective Request URI consider HTTP/1.0 ?
Jeff: that should be noted in the spec
mnot: but no need to define an algorithm for HTTP/1.0

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/222
<roy.fielding> yeah, but the whole purpose of * is not to be a URI
Julian: we need to come up with an URI, we need to state what that textual representation is
Julian: if we don't define target URI for OPTIONS, there are other places in the spec where we have that issue
<roy.fielding> those places already are special-cased for * (they must be)
Adam: you need to have an URI for everything at the security layer.
Martin: is * in the http scheme at all? Would a specific scheme be ok ? like "*" ?
Alexey: nice hack, but might be difficult to register
<roy.fielding> nope
Adam: in CORS, "*" represent "any URI"
=> continue on the mailing list 
<martin.thomson> suggestion wasn't serious :)

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/233
is * only usable for OPTIONS ?
some nodding heads
Julian: OPTIONS is used a lot OPTIONS * almost never (in WebDAV)
Martin: should we kill the star ?
<roy.fielding> It works fine for me.
<roy.fielding> I see no reason to stop implementing OPTION *
<martin.thomson> use case?
<roy.fielding> for OPTIONS
<martin.thomson> yes
<cyrus> for OPTIONS *
<martin.thomson> OPTIONS * specifically
mnot => continue on the list
<roy.fielding> for server OPTIONS

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/158
maybe define Keep-Alive in an appendix
Yngwe: we use Proxy-Connection to indicate Keep-Alive to the proxy. don't remember why

 http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/79
<martin.thomson> On OPTIONS *:
Request-URI is an asterisk ("*"), the OPTIONS request is    intended to apply to the server in general rather than to a specific    resource. Since a server's communication options typically depend on    the resource, the "*" request is only useful as a "ping" or "no-op"    type of method; it does nothing beyond allowing the client to test    the capabilities of the server. For example, this can be used to test    a proxy for HTTP/1.1 compliance (or lack thereof).

<roy.fielding> The advantage of OPTIONS * is that it makes a request without identifying a specific URI, thus allowing some security issues to be discovered before revealing the traget of the next request. It also does not impact hit rates.

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/203
Max-Forwards usable only for OPTIONS and TRACE ?
...some nodding

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/232
issue is about adding prose to avoid transforming UA in an Accept, with too much details
<roy.fielding> whereas it used to be a MUST NOT?

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/160
Yngwe: there are some sites that were broken while redirecting on 301/302 on POST

Adam: is this linked to 307 and user prompting ?
mnot: it is a different one, we should open an issue on user prompting

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/178
 still needs discussion, a partial proposal in upcoming -11
 http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/235
<roy.fielding> I did not addess 178 yet ... just changed terms to make existing text clearer for content-md5
<roy.fielding> we should consider deprecating content-md5 in general

Active Design ticket list
the "interesting" ones are marked 'later'
hardest issues are #20 and #22
<roy.fielding> http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/report/9

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/22

http://trac.tools.ietf.org/wg/httpbis/trac/ticket/20
long history, difficult to reach consensus
Adam: do you need data for what browsers do wrt #20 ?
mnot: more data welcomed, as browser changed
 
8. Memento presentation
<see slides>
Slide: Memento Framework
<Julian> should look for overlap with http://greenbytes.de/tech/webdav/rfc5829.html
stpeter: is the whole flow depending on having the original URI being active ? (including DNS)
Herbert: it can happen from the archive
Julian: it may be possible to re-use some recently registered link relatiions (RFC 5829)
Carrasco: we have the same issue in the language dimension
Martin: how do I do "monitoring state between date d1 and d2" ?
Herbert: there are multiple relationships, one pointing to the first or the last and there is a discovery API to get a list of mementos with associated dates
Martin: wanting for the drafts
<stpeter> http://www.mementoweb.org/
<stpeter> and http://www.mementoweb.org/guide/http/ has some details
<Julian> running code!
Herbert: there are plugins for mediawiki, a mozilla plugin, and more to come
mnot: the earlier the discussion starts the better, in case the protocol ahs to change
 
ADJOURNED
